#Some review 

## Primitive data types

The very basic building block of JavaScript are primitive data types. We know of three primitives:

strings (e.g. "dogs go woof!")
numbers (e.g. 4, 10)
booleans (e.g. false, 5 > 4)

    ```JavaScript
    (((3 * 90) === 270) || !(false && (!false)) || "bex".toUpperCase() === "BEX");
    ```

Focus on each element of the expression separated by the `||` *("OR")* operator. You will see that there are *three smaller expressions.* Evaluate those smaller expressions first, then use them use *three Booleans* and determine the overall expression's **Boolean value.**

For each of the smaller expressions, ask yourself these questions:

1. Does 3 * 90 equal 270?

2. What's the opposite of false AND not-false?

3. If we turn "bex" into all-uppercase letters, will it be the same as "BEX"?

Since we're dealing with the || ("OR") operator here, if the first statement OR the second statement OR the third statement is true, the entire statement is true, and the value of answer should be true.

##Through the hard times
We know two ways of storing data types. *We can use variables or arrays.* We use *variables* to *store data* (like strings or numbers) that we’d later want to access.

An array is exactly the same as a variable in that it stores data. The difference is that an array can store many more values while a variable can only store one.

To access arrays, we use bracket notation and remember that arrays use 0-based indexing (i.e., the first value in an array is at position 0).


Look at the array multiplesOfEight, and find the one that doesn't fit.

Replace X in line 6 such that the variable answer is assigned the Boolean value of true.

    ```JavaScript
    // Here is an array of multiples of 8. But is it correct?
    var multiplesOfEight = [8,16,24,32,40,58];

    // Test to see if a number from the array is NOT a true
    // multiple of eight. Real multiples will return false.
    var answer = multiplesOfEight[48] % 8 !== 0;
    ```

## Fizz buzz exercise 
**Great response by Roy on how to write an efficient fizz buzz program**
This article is based on another users code..This users code was quite un-efficient and Roy goes in and points out a few **important** details on how to improve it.

___

As an aside let's examine one bit of your code:

`!i%5===0`

There are three operators in the above expression. ! NOT; % MOD, or modulo; and === EQU, or strict type matching equality. Order of operations rules come into play. Logic and math have that in common.

So the question is, how well did you understand the above expression when you put it into use? My guess? Not very. This is not a dig, only a great opportunity to study exactly how this stuff works. We all want to know. How does this expression play out?

First, let's look at the order in which they are stacked up:

`NOT MOD EQU`
Considering left to right order, start with *NOT*. This negation operator is working with the operand *immediately associated with it.* In the above expression, that would be `i` (not i%5 as we might expect).

To save typing, and see immediate output, how be we shift to the JavaScript Console and enter code at the command line?

    ```JavaScript
    > i = 15
    15
    > !i
    false
    ```

Since this program begins at `i=1,` the value will always be false.

    ```JavaScript
    > !i
    false
    > false % 5
    0
    ```
This likewise, will always be **zero** when `i` is **nonzero**

Witness, coercion, otherwise normally referred to as casting. For the purposes of the *modulo operator* to work, both *operands needed to be numbers.* What does loosely typed JavaScript go ahead and do? It casts `false` (boolean type) into a `0` (number type) and carries on its merry way.

Go ahead, try casting true using the above, `true % 5`. Surprise! `1`. Same thing we would get if we wrote, `1 % 5` .
    
    ```JavaScript
    > true % 5
    1
    ```
**SAME THING**

    ```JavaScript
    > 1 % 5
    1
    ```

This is very important stuff to grasp on to. I hope you are taking notes or bookmarking this thread. *HINT HINT :)* It's not a topic that comes up much, at least not as opportunistically as I'm treating it, just now. By your leave, I hope...

Where were we?

    ```JavaScript
    ! i => false
    false % 5 => 0
    0 === 0 => true
    ```

This is the order in which the code appears to be running. That would indicate, then, that the outcome of this expression will always be true when `i%3` is **zero**

*left to right order*

`> i % 3 === 0 && !i % 5 === 0`
`true`

    ```JavaScript
    !i 
    false

    false % 5
    0

    i % 3
    0
    ```

## I have to celebrate you baby
This exercise has lots of movies and reviews to type in. You might wonder, "Is this teaching coding or typing?!"

But there's a reason why there are so many cases to deal with. We want to show that if we used if-else statements, it would be inefficient. What alternative to if / else can we use?

##Solution 
    ```JavaScript
    // Imagine you have a movie collection, and you want to write code that returns your review for each one. Here are the movies and your reviews:

    // "Toy Story 2" - "Great story. Mean prospector."
    // "Finding Nemo" - "Cool animation, and funny turtles."
    // "The Lion King" - "Great songs."
    // Write a function named getReview that takes in a movie name and returns its review based on the information above. If given a movie name not found just return "I don't know!". Use a structure learned in an earlier lesson (NOT if/else statements) to write this function.


    var getReview = function (movie){

    switch(movie){

    case "Toy Story 2":
    title = "Great story. Mean prospector.";
    break;

    case "Lion King":
    title = "Great songs.";
    break;

    case "Finding Memo":
    title = "Cool animation, and funny turtles.";
    break;

    default:
    title = "I dont know";
    }
    };

    getReview("Toy Story 2");
    ```
