## Introduction 

The purpose of this quiz is to test my knowledge on JavaScript. The quiz was designed to help me to see what I know and what I need to improve on.

###Rules

**1. All code must be commented to explain what each line is doing.**

**2. Use `console.log();`to print all my answers to the console.**

___

###Question 1
#### Array says: "Please iterate me!"
Declare an `array` and **iterate** through the `array` with a `while loop`.
___
####[Answer 1]()
___
###Question 2
#### Object says: "Please iterate me"
Iterate through the properties of an `object` with a `for in loop`
___
####[Answer 2]()
___
###Question 3
#### I can count in multiples of 10!
Count to 100 in multiples of 10 using a `for loop`
___
####[Answer 3]()
___
###Question 4
####Objects are friendly

#### Part 1. 
Create an empty `object literal` and give it three `properties`, use `dot notation` to assign the properties then print one of the `properties` to the console.
___

#### Part 2.
Assign a new property to our object named `empty` that has a method. 
This method needs to do 3 things. 

1. Print to the `console` "this is a method". 

2. Access the second property of `empty` and log it to `console`. 

3. Print a string that says "Do I own a " then finally access the third property of `empty` and concatenate all the strings we logged earlier together with our third property. 
___
#### [Answer 4]()
___

###Question 5
#### I can count to 20! 
Use a `while loop` to count to the number 20

___ 

#### [Answer 5]()
___

###Question 6
####Adding in functions
Write a `function expression` that *adds* two numbers together.

The `function expression` must accept numbers as `arguments`
___

#### [Answer 6]()
___

###Question 7
####A swell won't wait for you.   

#### Part 1.
Create a `currentSwell` `object literal` that contains two `properties` `swellHeight` and `swellPeriod` then have a `methods` that `return` the `swellHeight` and `swellPeriod` in the form of a `string`. I would like to the `string` to look like this 
___
> The new incoming swell is 12 feet with a period of 14 seconds between wave intervals
___
####Part 2. 
Create a `constructor function` named `newSwell` that contains a `method`. The `method` must `return` our `newSwell`data in the form of a string.
___
>  "The new incoming swell is 6 feet with a period of 12 seconds between wave intervals"
___  

Once I have created the `constructor function` and it  has a `method` then I need to declare a `object constructor` outside of `constructor functions` block. Name the `object constructor` `newSwellData`

**HINT** 

`newSwellData` is going to reference `newSwell` 

It will look something like this `var newSwellData = new ???  `

To make a new object constructor you need the syntax `new` after you declare `newSwellData` 

Once this is done then you need to pass into the `object constructor` some arguments `(...)`

These `arguments` are going to be the new swell data! 
___

#### [Answer 7]()
___

### Question 8
####Coffee choices and some logic 
####Part 1
Write an `if/else statement` within a `function` named `myCoffee`. The `myCoffee` function  **must** `return` how many shots of expresso I had in my americano

####Part 2
Write the a `function` named `newCoffeeType` that has three `parameters`. 

The `parameters` are going to be three different coffee choices. In the body of the `newCoffeeType` incorporate and `else/if statement` to perform some basic logic. The result I want is going to be one of the coffee choices.

#####Remember to pass my coffee choices in as `arguments`

___

#### [Answer 8]()
____

### Question 9 
####Working with Functions, Numbers and Logic

#### Part 1. 
Create the `function min(a,b)` which takes two numbers as `arguments` and `returns` the greater number using a `if/else statement`.

#### Part 2.  
Create a Function named `add` that takes 3 parameters `(result,x,y)`. Then use logic to multiply `x,y`. Pass a `string` into our `variable` named `result` as an `argument`. The string must explain what numbers we are multiplying.

The string should like like this when logged to the console

> "3 * 3 is ... " 
___
#### [Answer 9]()
___

###Question 10 
#### Accurate swell forecast 
#### Part 1

Provide the user with a simple swell for cast using `objects`. The swell forecast that we create will print to the `console`. 

####*Steps* (Part 1)

These steps are a mere guidelines to the answer.
___

Our first `object literal` will store `waveHeight` and `wavePeriod` `properties`. We will then use a `method` to print `waveHeight` and `wavePeriod` to the console.

Our second `object` literal will be called `tide` and store `highTide` and `lowTide` `properties`. We want to also have a `method` attached to `tide` that prints our tide `properties` to the console. 
___

#### Part 2

1. Write a simple program that tells the user the conditions of the surf spot that they are interested in.

2. Once the user has found out the surf spot report then `prompt` the user to ask where is the best spot is today. Our program should print out the best spot in the `console`

####*Steps* (Part 2)
Create a `Function` that holds a `switch state`. Then
`Prompt` the user to enter only **one** of the **four** surf spots into the `prompt`. 

`console.log()` the `Function` so it prints the info on the spot to the `console`

The second part of our program is going to require some basic logic and we can do that with an `if/else` after the `switch` has finished. 

**Hint** you should store the `variables` for the `if/else` in the `function` `parameters` and then pass the values for your `variables` into the `function` as `arguments`
___
#### [Answer 10]()
___








